# README

# Considering Bias in Data

## Project Goal

This homework explores the concept of bias in data using Wikipedia articles. It combines a dataset of Wikipedia articles with a dataset of country populations and uses a machine learning service called ORES to estimate the quality of each article.

Then, it analyzes  how the coverage of politicians on Wikipedia and the quality of articles about politicians varies among countries.

## Source Citation

The Wikipedia Category:Politicians by nationality was crawled to generate a list of Wikipedia article pages about politicians from a wide range of countries. This data is saved as **politicians_by_country.AUG.2024.csv**

The population data is available in CSV format as **population_by_country_AUG.2024.csv** This dataset was downloaded from the world population data sheet published by the Population Reference Bureau.


## License of Source Data



## License of Source Code

### Example Code



### Example Code License



## Summary of Terms of Use



## Intermediary and Final Data Files/Schema

The following contextual files are either generated upon creation of the repository or loaded in/duplicated:

1.  **README.md** Created in R
2.  **LICENSE.txt**
3.  **wp_pages_info_example.ipynb** Example source code provided via course materials
4.  **wp_ores_liftwing_example.ipynb** Example source code provided via course materials
5.  **politicians_by_country.AUG.2024.csv** Source data - politicians by country, taken from Wikipedia
6.  **population_by_country_AUG.2024.csv** Source data - world population data sheet published by the Population Reference Bureau.

The following intermediary data files are generated by the scripts in this repository:


The following final data files are generated by the scripts in this repository:


## Known Issues and Considerations


## Reproducibility and Citation

This homework follows reproducible research practices. Portions of the code has been text-generated by ChatGPT, OpenAI, 14 Oct. 2024. These portions are noted in the markdown of the code preceding them, including the prompt, and are wrapped in a function to contain them. Note that all portions of text-generated code have been edited from their original versions for logic, clarity, and usability.

If you use this data or code, please provide proper credit to the Wikimedia Foundation as the source of the data and the example notebook as a source of the software.
